
PLEASE USE THE SCANTRON SHEET FOR SECTION #1.
WRITE ANSWERS FOR SECTION #2, 3, & 4  DIRECTLY ON THE QUIZ BOOKLET.

TIME: 60 minutes
Closed books, no cell phones or electronic devices, all bags on floor.
The test should be on pages 3-x. Pages 2 & x are intentionally blank.

Grading:
50 points / 2 = 25% of final grade
SECTION #1	30 Multiple Choice Questions 			1 pt each
SECTION #2	10 Short Answer Questions			1 pt each
SECTION #3 	1 Long answer Question (choice)		10 points
SECTION #4	5 Bonus Questions				5 pts total



SECTION 1: Questions 1-30	MULTIPLE CHOICE (1 point each)		TOTAL: 30 MARKS
Globalization, in terms of new media, can be defined as:

The process by which markets, technologies, cultures, and businesses are homogenizing and becoming accessible everywhere on the planet.
The spread of American brands and companies to new countries, opening retail locations that drive out local businesses and industries.
The growth of monopoly capitalism in the era of late modernity.
The outsourcing of jobs and production to countries with low wages and fewer environmental and safety regulations.

Which one of the following is NOT a characteristic of digital media?

Manipulable
Networkable
Dense
Confidential
Impartial
 
What best describes the concept of convergence?

Having one phone that does everything
The use of various modes of content on one device
All your old media technologies get rolled into one
When gamers get together to play video games?

What are the three “C” s of new media?

Computing, Content, and Convergence
Communications, Computing, and Content
Cable TV, CD-ROMs, and Computers
Convergence, Communications, and Content


From the text by Flew and Smith, what was the key thing that separated new media from previous media forms?

Electricity
Computing
Interactivity
Networking




As described in class, what does remediation mean?

Describing new media using the language of old media
Reusing old content in new formats, like upgrading your albums to CDs
Using the same content as a brand across multiple platforms
Relaunching old content in every few years to maintain the copyright


When the internet growth was at its peak in the years from 1996-2000, what was the annual rate of growth?

178%
260%
472%
1704%
None of the above

What is the definition of the digital divide?

Gap in access between have and have not
Gap between the innovators and the early adopters
The divide between Apple and Android users.
Gap between the 1% and everyone else.

In an image of a long tail distribution model. Which company below leverages the long tail for their retail operations?

Walmart
Disney
Amazon
Facebook

An interface is defined as “The way users experience software or hardware”. Based on this, which of the following devices is NOT a computer interface?

Mouse
Joystick
Display
Printer
None of the above; they are all interfaces.

The Web 2.0 practice of “tagging” data was identified as a method of _________.

Homophily
Metadata
Folksonomy
Convergence

Harold Innis is the Canadian Communications scholar who talked about time-biased and space-biased media. New media exhibits which bias?
 
Time
Space
Both
Neither

Comparing Morse code and the early telegraph with the modern “Web 2.0” internet, which key feature listed below was missing from the “Victorian Internet”?

Encoding of data
Compression
Interactivity
Storage

Metcalfe's Law describes the power of the growth of a network.  What is the key characteristic that determines if a device works for the purposes of Metcalfe’s Law?

Convergence
Compatibility
Connectivity
Computing Power

Network neutrality treats data with _________ in order to limit advantages and allow growth.

Connectivity
Common carriage
Preference
Impartiality



What famous feud was shown as an example of Social Shaping of Technology during a lecture:

QWERTY vs Dvorak
Emacs vs vi
VHS vs Beta
Windows vs Mac


In the diffusion model, where is Facebook in the current period of adoption? (And what would that suggest about there future growth prospects?)

A
B
C
D





What are the two things political economy focuses on when analyzing media:

Ownership structures and money flows
Politics and economics
Who has the money, and who benefits from it most.
Production and distribution networks of new media.


In the text, Andrew Feenberg describes one element of the political economy approach to technology as the technical code. This code often obscures the _______ of the system.

Constraints
Power
Money flows
Development

From the discussion in class of Vincent Mosco’s concept of the digital sublime from the text, what phrase below best describes how that process of sublimation appears in the real world?

The internet has disappeared.
Wireless connectivity appears from nowhere.
The internet has become transcendent.
The internet increases in power when it can reliably assumed to be always available. 

What were the four stages in Stuart Hall’s Encoding/Decoding model of communication?

Sender, Channel, Noise, Receiver
Production, Circulation, Use, Recirculation
Sender, Receiver, Channel, Feedback, 
Producer, Distributor, User, Consumer

Which of the following best fits the definition of a social network?

an online or app-based website that makes you create a profile
Individuals or organizations that socialize in communities
face to face or electronic relations between people for formal and informal purposes
a community of like-minded individuals that gathers together on the internet

How does Social Network Analysis connect back to political economy approaches to new media?

New media companies like Google, Facebook, and Twitter have an undue influence on political discourse
It treats network capital as a resource like financial capital
New media companies require a high capital expenditure to start up.
There is so much money to be made in new media. So. Much. Money.

What is the key element in Social Network Analysis?

Edge
Dyad
Actor
Clique

An edge or an arc in a Social Network graph represents a:

Person
Non-human actor
Mutual interests
Relationship

Collaboration Information Models are a form of peer production. What was one CIM that was discussed in class?

Netflix
iTunes
Wikipedia
Yelp!

Two of the characteristics of Collaboration Information Models are granularity and ________.

Modularity
Scalability
Reducibility
Adaptability

For a project using the collaborative information model, granularity was defined as:

“The ability of a component to be reduced to smaller parts”
“The smallest possible investment necessary to participate in a project”
“Being similar in number to grains of sand on a beach.”
“The atomization of a larger object into successively smaller parts that are self-similar in scale.”






SECTION 2: Short Answer Questions 31-40	(1 point each)		TOTAL: 10 MARKS

Were the previous questions starting to sound familiar?


Placeholder
 

Placeholder


Placeholder
 

Placeholder


Placeholder
 

Placeholder


Placeholder
 

Placeholder


Placeholder
 





SECTION 3: Question 34		Long Answer				TOTAL: 10 MARKS
Please choose one of the following three questions, and answer it on the remainder of the page, or the overleaf.

First question, something lengthy about the role of ICTs in society.

This will be the second question. The Bill Leiss one that I hinted at in the last two classes.

What are some “new media” technology you use in every day life? In a day, list all the items you use.






SECTION 4: Questions 35-39		Bonus Questions			TOTAL: ? MARKS
What ?

A
B
C
D

What ?

A
B
C
D

What?

A
B
C
D

Placeholder. Short Answer, 1 mark.


Placeholder. Short Answer, 1 mark.



